>> Jen Kramer: So we have lots of
different ways to code this particular
solution.
But so I wanted to go through
how I coded my solution.
And you can see my solution,
it's in the end folder.
So if you look in blog-end you'll
see what I did for a solution.
Doesn't mean that your solution is
wrong because there's always a lot of
different ways to code things.
And so mine is just a suggestion.
If yours looks like the design that we
had here, then we're good, all right.
So here we are, I am in blog-begin.
And let me get my space set up here.
I've got the HTML open.
I'm gonna go ahead and
open up the CSS as well.
Everybody's wrapping around.
Make sure that's all good.
Okay, and,
>> Jen Kramer: Let
me also open up the picture here.
>> Jen Kramer: All right,
so let's go ahead and
let's kind of work from the bottom up,
just for fun, okay.
So if we start down here at the bottom
of the page, we have these icons that
are all next to each other along with
this legal disclaimer type of thing.
And if we take a look at our HTML,
>> Jen Kramer: Scroll
all the way down there to the bottom.
So what we've got here going on is we've
got a pretty much a social media bar.
So these all would all link to the alien
websites if we actually had websites to
link to, and you can see that
they have images in there,
they all have their alt tags and so forth.
So we needed to code this up as
some kind of navigation bar.
Pretty simply, I'm gonna scroll
on down here to the bottom.
The other thing that that you might have
noticed here is I've put in a few of
these additional HTML tags.
I didn't have a lot of time to talk about
them today., but the footer tag is pretty
much what you would expect it to be,
it's typically the footer of the web page.
And it often contains things like
disclaimers and copyright and
privacy notices and sales and
social media links, and
all the usual stuff you've
come to expect in a footer.
And so that tag happens to
be a bit more semantic and
describes the function of that
particular part of the web page,
using the footer tag as opposed
to using just a generic div tag.
Diff means nothing,
you're not communicating anything.
Footer is a way better choice if that
is in fact what you're building.
If that's what you're building,
call it a footer, okay.
So far to start it we just had the text
aligned in the center and we had a font
size that was set, but we didn't have
any other styling that was added here.
And so what we need to do first
of all is let's go in ahead and
code up,
>> Jen Kramer: Our particular nav bar.
So as always the very
first thing that we wanna
do is turn off our margin, our padding,
and set our list style type to none.
Okay, so
that's gonna turn off the bullets.
And that little formula there,
you can use that anywhere.
And it's so incredibly helpful because
this is the way you're gonna start pretty
much any kind of navigation of any kind.
You gotta turn off the bullets, turn off
the padding, turn off the margin, and
then you're set and ready to go.
And then we're gonna say footer li.
All we need to do is say
display: inline-block, okay.
So if we do that little,
all we did was turn off the bullets,
turn off the margin of the padding,
and display inline.
That would be adequate to going ahead and
make this nav bar look like a nav bar.
>> Jen Kramer: Go on ahead and
load this up.
And you'll notice that the load time on
this page is a little bit longer than
the ones we've been working with.
We actually have some fonts that
are coming from the web in use on this
web page.
I'm gonna talk about how to
do that magic later tomorrow.
But there's our footer, so there we go.
We've got our navigation down there and
it's going horizontally on the page.
Some of you did this with Flexbox,
that's totally legit as well.
You may have slightly different
spacing in between the links.
Emma Weaver here was doing Flexbox
using that on the bottom, and
she had a little bit more
space between the icons.
We could argue that that's actually better
because then with our fat fingers as
we're clicking on those things we're not
going to run into the other icon having
a little bit more space between those.
But that's a design thing, okay.
So that's that.
The next thing that was causing people
a lot of problems were the double
lines down here that are two
different colors, okay.
The lines that are two different colors.
And so how do we go about doing that?
Lines on web pages often
come from borders, okay.
So the horizontal rule is definitely
a thing, but if you're using a horizontal
rule just to make a line to make something
pretty you're actually misusing the tag.
Remember HTML is all about markup.
It's all about the various tags on the on
the page and what you're trying to convey.
As opposed to these pretty CSS borders
which are literally about making
things pretty.
So what we wanna do is we need to
have a border that's one color and
a border that's another color.
Wouldn't it be nice if
we just used two boxes,
we could make the top of the footer,
have a border of one color,
and then we can take the bottom of the
section which is the tag just above here,
we can make the bottom of the section
have a border of a different color.
So the way we set that up,
>> Jen Kramer: Get my page back.
>> Jen Kramer: This is actually
where it is to get my color.
So here on the footer what we're gonna do
is we're gonna add a border-top
of one pixel solid,
and the color that I used was A61F11.
I think I've probably used it somewhere
else in the document, A61F11, there we go.
So that's the more of the reddish color.
And then we can put in
a section before that section,
we're gonna do border-bottom:
1px solid #da0090,
which gives me the pink color.
If your colors where slightly different,
that's totally fine,
we're not gonna pick on you for that.
But these were the colors
that I used here.
And if you go on ahead and
save that and refresh the page,
those are actually two
borders right there, okay,
borders right there.
They're on top of each other, boom,
right on top of each other like this.
Okay, so what do we need to do
to separate the two borders?
Anybody?
>> Class: Margin.
>> Jen Kramer: We need a little
margin in order to separate these.
So we can either put a top margin on the
footer or a bottom margin on the section,
doesn't really matter in this
particular case which one you do.
So what I did was I put
a bottom border on the section.
Sorry, a bottom margin, so
margin-bottom is going to be 0.3 RIM.
That was my magic number,
your magic number might be something
slightly different, that's cool.
We're not gonna pick up
on you about that either.
>> Jen Kramer: So there's our two borders,
kinda close together but different colors.
Any questions on that?
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so that's kind of
a cool trick that you can whip out and
use on other web pages in the future.